REPLACEMENTS

PN psync notice
PQ psync quote
LPS last psync shortfall
PS psync shortfall

=head1 Psync

=head2 Overview

A customer may at any time change the amount of service they are
receiving from us.  For example, they can upgrade or downgrade their
account, or add or remove aliases at any time. This changes the amount
that they need to pay us for service.  This in turn changes the
expiration date on their account.  Moonpig sends the user a "psync
notice", informing them of the change, and, if the date has become
earlier, offering them a chance to pay to have the old expiration date
reinstated.

=head2 Example

Suppose on January 1 a user signs up for a Pobox Basic account,
charged at $20 per year, and pays $20 for one year of service.  By
July 1, they have consumed $10 worth of service and have $10 left
unspent.

At this point they upgrade their account to Pobox Plus, charged at $35
per year.  Their remaining $10 is only enough to pay for $10/$35 = 29%
of a year, instead of the 50% they had before. 29% of a year is 104
days, so with the current funds, the account will last only another
104 days, and will expire on October 13 instead of on the following
January 1.

The psync system will send a notice:

        {{ $date_format = "%B %e, %Y";  # Jan  9, 2000.
           $SHHH = "" }}

        You've recently updated your service 'joe@pobox.com'.
        Due to those changes, your account price has changed.  Based on funds 
        on hand, service is now expected to continue until Oct 13, 2012.

        If you would prefer, you can make a pro-rated payment to
        extend your service to your previous expiration date.  The
        pro-rated charge to extend service to Jan  1, 2013 is $7.50.

        To make payment online...

        If no action is taken, service will continue through Oct 13, 2012.

The user has the option to pay and retain the old expiration date, or
ignore the notice and accept the new expiration date.

=head2 Implementation

=head3 Overview 

Pobox consumers track a "psync shortfall" duration.  This is the
difference between the duration they expect to be able to live, and
the duration they can live based on their current funds and current
charging rate. A positive PS indicates a shortage of funds; a negative
PS indicates a surplus.

At heartbeat time, each active consumer calculates its PS and compares
it with the saved LPS.  If they are the same, it does nothing.  If the
shortfall has increased, the event handler constructs a special "PQ"
for the amount to cover the change in shortfall and sends the customer
a "PN" as described above in the L<Example> section.  If the shortfall
has decreased, the handler sends a truncated notice with no quote and
no request for funds.

=head3 Psync quotes

If a psync quote is required, the active consumer starts and finishes
it, and asks itself and each of its inactive successors to place
charges on it.

A psync quote can be distinguished from a regular quote because it has
a C<psync_for_xid> member that records the XID to which it pertains.
When the active consumer finishes constructing a PQ, older PQs for the
same XID are obsolete, and are abandoned.

Unlike a regular quote, a PQ does not carry a chain of inactive
consumers to attach to the current chain, and so doesn't care about a
saved attachment point.

=head3 Fine points of time and money calculations

Everything in this section applies only to C<ByTime> consumers. At
present, no other consumers participate in the psync process, except
for C<SelfFunding>, which are detailed below.

=head4 Expected lifetime

An active consumer's want to live is its proration period, which is
normally the same as its cost period (typically, one year), reduced by
the interval it has already lived, as measured from its activation
date to its next charge date.

An active consumer's expected lifetime, based on funds on hand, is
just its funds on hand, divided by its current charge rate.

=head4 Funds on hand

Funds on hand are a bit complicated.  This total is mainly the money
that has already been transferred to the consumer's account. But it
also includes funds from paid but unexecuted charges owned by the
consumer, and it I<also> includes funds from I<unpaid> charges owned
by the consumer, under the assumption that the customer will pay these
charges eventually.

=head4 Account expiration

Account expiration dates mentioned in the PN are calculated similarly
to the way the shortfall in the active consumer is calculated, but are
added up for each consumer in the entire chain, including inactive
successors.

An inactive consumer's want-to-live is the same as its proration
period, which is normally its cost period.  Its expected funded
lifetime is the same as for an active consumer, but *not* including
unpaid charges. (XXX Why not?)

=head2 Psync and self-funding consumers (buy-five-get-one-free)

The buy-five-get-one-free deal ("b5g1") is implemented by having each
chain of five paid consumers capped with a C<SelfFunding> consumer
which, when activated, immediately creates and takes possession of a
credit that will pay for its lifetime.

This self-funded credit is normally just enough to pay for one year of
the same service as the five consumers that were paid for.

If the customer pays for a service upgrade partway through the initial
five-year period, their free year is upgraded also, by an amount that
is pro-rated to match the amount the customer paid for the upgrade.

For example, suppose the customer pays for five years of service at
$20 per year. They will receive a self-funding consumer worth $20 of
free service.  Now suppose that after 3 years, they upgrade their
service to Pobox Plus, billed at $35 per year.  They will receive a PN
warning them of a shortfall, and inviting them to pay $30 to upgrade
the two remaining years of service to Pobox Plus.

If the customer opts not to pay, their paid service will finish after
20/35 of two years, which is 417 days instead of 730.  Then their free
consumer, which is still worth $20, will activate and live for 20/35
of one year, which is 209 days instead of 365.

If the customer does pay the $30 PQ, however, their paid service will
be will be extended back to its original lifetime of two years. The
free consumer will be credited with an additional bonus: not a full
$15 of free credit, but 2/5 of this amount, or $6, bringing its total
to $26.  This will extend its shortened lifetime from 209 days to 271
days.  This extra 62 days is 2/5 of the difference between the
shortened lifetime of 209 days and the original lifetime of 365 days.

=head2 Weird edge cases

=head3 Long time elapses between change and invoice

XXX Rik should write this up.

=head3 Forward propagation of LPS

When an active consumer issues a PN, it resets the LPS on all its
successors, setting their LPS to whatever their current predicted
shortfall is.  This is so that if the customer opts not to execute and
pay the PQ, the successors won't repeat the same notice when they are
activated in due course.  

=head3 Small drifts in LPS

If the LPS drifts by a small amount (typically, by less than a day),
the notice is suppressed.  The recorded LPS is I<not> updated, so that
a large drift that occurs a bit at a time will eventually trigger a
PN.

This could cause a user to get a fraction of a day of service more or
less than they are really owed.
